---
layout: post
title:  "Purpose and objectives"
date:   2017-09-07 15:38:56 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

Neuroinformatics is an emerging field of research that comprises the use of
modern data-intensive technologies in neuroscience. Its practice requires both
broad knowledge of neuroscience as well as substantive competency in data
science. The WING is a working group at the University of Washington (UW)
eScience Institute and the University of Washington Institute for
Neuroengineering (UWIN) that focuses on neuroinformatics methods and their role
in understanding the brain.

UW has many units and programs devoted to neuroscience, and many researchers
across campus and in the wider Seattle neuroscience community use data-intensive
computing technologies. We feel there is tremendous potential for researchers
across neuroinformatics -- with focus on many different model organisms and
levels of description -- to learn from each other, to form new collaborations,
and to work together to promote reproducible science.  For these reasons, we
feel the need to create a focal point for neuroinformatics activities at UW.
This working group will serve as connective tissue in the research community,
also providing a bridge between the data science activities undertaken at
eScience and the broader neuroscience community.

The objectives of the working group are:

  - To provide an inclusive forum for discussion on all aspects of neuroinformatics at the UW and the Seattle area.

  - To facilitate deep understanding of neuroinformatics through code reviews, critical reading of published neuroinformatics work, and active reproductions of this work.

  - To help organize seminars, symposia, and hackathons.

  - To develop, harden, and disseminate software for the analysis of data from neuroscience experiments.

  - To foster practices for reproducible and open science among neuroscience researchers.

A successful WING community will accelerate the adoption of data-intensive
technologies in neuroscience research at UW. It will provide specific
neuroinformatics skills to trainees in existing training programs. It will spur
new research in neuroinformatics and in neuroscience. Finally, it will galvanize
a community of practice on campus and in the surrounding region, with a specific
focus on technical excellence, methodological adventurousness, and an open
collaborative spirit.

It is our hope to solidify the leadership role that UW has already established
in neuroscience and data science, serving as an example for other universities
and research institutions.
